Documentation on Project-Urls (#16513)
pypi/warehouse: docs/user/project_metadata.md

# Project Metadata

> ## Project-URL

Reviewer: Nitpick: `Project-URL` is the metadata name at distribution bake time, but most users probably know it better as the `[project.urls]` table. I think we should make the title here just "Project URLs" and link to the appropriate part of the `pyproject.toml` spec, rather than the core metadata spec.

```suggestion
## Project URLs
```

> Package metadata can contain optional [`Project-URL`](https://packaging.python.
> org/en/latest/specifications/core-metadata/#project-url-multiple-use) 
> keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages can specify URLs in their metadata via the [`[project.urls]` table] in the package's `pyproject.toml`.

[`[project.urls] table`]: https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/pyproject-toml/#urls
```

PyPI renders these URLs on the project page. They are also available in 
the [JSON API](https://warehouse.pypa.io/api-reference/json.html).

### Verified details

![Verified details](assets/verified_details.png){ loading=lazy }

PyPI currently supports several ways of verifying project URLs and displays 
marks them using a green checkmark (:fontawesome-solid-circle-check:{ .checked }).

> 

Reviewer 2: ...here.
```suggestion

!!! warning

    An URL being verified only attests that the URL is under control of the
    PyPI package owner, and does not imply any additional safety about that
    URL or any other relationship to the project in question.

```

### Self-links

Any URL to the project on PyPI will be considered verified[^1].
[^1]: The complete list is defined [here](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/blob/9d559e1096552b1c86fccb2e1b5008ec05fc534b/warehouse/forklift/legacy.py#L461)

### Via Trusted Publishing

[Trusted Publishing](trusted-publishers/index.md) allows PyPI to attest that the 
publishing workflow for a package is coming from a verified source.

PyPI supports the following OIDC Publishers:

- [GitHub Actions][gh-action-tab]
- [Google Cloud][gc-tab]
- [ActiveState][active-tab]
- [GitLab CI/CD][gitlab-tab]

[gh-action-tab]: trusted-publishers/creating-a-project-through-oidc.md#github-actions
[gc-tab]: trusted-publishers/creating-a-project-through-oidc.md#google-cloud
[active-tab]: trusted-publishers/creating-a-project-through-oidc.md#activestate
[gitlab-tab]: trusted-publishers/creating-a-project-through-oidc.md#gitlab-cicd

> !!! warning
> 
>     An URL being verified only attests that the URL is under control of the
>     PyPI package owner, and does not imply any additional safety about that
>     URL or any other relationship to the project in question.

Reviewer 2: I think this can get moved...
```suggestion
```

lists below and changes the default icon from
:fontawesome-solid-square-up-right: to a customized one.

#### General URL

| Icon                                      | Name          | Description               | Aliases                                                      |
|:------------------------------------------|:--------------|:--------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|
| :fontawesome-solid-house-chimney:         | Homepage      | For the project homepage  |                                                              |
| :fontawesome-solid-cloud:                 | Download      | A download link           |                                                              |
| :fontawesome-solid-scroll:                | Changelog     | Changelog information     |                                                              |
| :fontawesome-solid-book:                  | Documentation | Project documentation     | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Docs" }                     |
| :fontawesome-solid-bug:                   | Bug           | Bug/Issue report location | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Issue, Tracker, Report"}    |

> | :fontawesome-solid-circle-dollar-to-slot: | Funding       | Sponsoring information    | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Sponsor, Donation, Donate"} |

Reviewer 2: I think including the "info" icon with a tooltip is confusing here, let's just include the text in the cell instead.

# Project Metadata

Python packages can include additional metadata to provide more information 
about the project. This document outlines the specific behaviors 
implemented by PyPI to display project metadata and other details. The 
comprehensive list of metadata fields is available in the [Python Packaging 
User Guide].

[Python Packaging User Guide]: https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/core-metadata/#core-metadata-specifications

## Project URLs

Packages owners can specify various URLs related to their project using 
the [`[project.urls]` table](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/pyproject-toml/#urls) in the package's `pyproject.toml`.

PyPI renders these URLs on the project page and splits them into `verified` and 
`unverified` subgroups. They are also available using the 
[JSON API](https://warehouse.pypa.io/api-reference/json.html).

### Verified details

![Verified details](assets/verified_details.png){ loading=lazy }

> PyPI currently supports several ways of verifying project URLs and highlights 
> them using a green checkmark (:fontawesome-solid-circle-check:{ .checked }).

Reviewer: Nitpick, phrasing:

```suggestion
PyPI currently supports several ways of verifying project URLs. When a URL is verified, PyPI highlights it using a green checkmark (:fontawesome-solid-circle-check:{ .checked }).
```

> # Projects metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Project metadata
```

## Project-URL

> A package can contain optional [Project URL](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/core-metadata/#project-url-multiple-use) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Package metadata can contain optional [`Project-URL`](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/core-metadata/#project-url-multiple-use) 
```

keys.

> PyPI renders these URLs on the package project page. They are also available in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyPI renders these URLs on the project page. They are also available in 
```

> the JSON data when requesting the package information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the [JSON API](https://warehouse.pypa.io/api-reference/json.html).
```

### Verified details

![Verified details](assets/verified_details.png){ loading=lazy }

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyPI currently supports several ways of verifying project URLs:

#### Self-links
Any URL to the project on PyPI will be considered verified.

#### Via Trusted Publishing
```
I'd like to make this less Trusted Publishing focused.

> [Trusted Publishing](trusted-publishers) allow PyPI to verify certain 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Trusted Publishing](trusted-publishers) allows PyPI to verify certain 
```

> information submitted by the package maintainer. Verified information appears in

Reviewer 2: Let's be clear about what information we use for verification here -- username and repository name. We should also be clear about which providers we support this for and which we don't.

Reviewer 2: I think this still needs to be resolved.

a separate section of the package detail page. A verified URL will have a green 
checkmark attached (:fontawesome-solid-circle-check:{ .checked }).

!!! warning

    An URL being verified only attest that the _provenance_ of the build has 

>     been verified, i.e. the packages sources are coming from the URL specified.

Reviewer 3: > the package sources are coming from the URL specified

This is not always the case: for example, we mark `pypi.org/p/$PROJECT_NAME` as verified. We are also planning to add support for verifying ReadTheDocs URLs. I would maybe remove this for now, or add a placeholder so that when we have a document specifying how/which URLs are verified, we can link to that.

>     An URL being verified only attest that the _provenance_ of the build has 
>     been verified, i.e. the packages sources are coming from the URL specified.
> 
>     PyPI does not check the package content itself.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this entirely:

```suggestion
    An URL being verified only attests that the URL is under control of the
    PyPI package owner, and does not imply any additional safety about that
    URL or any other relationship to the project in question.
```

### Icons

![Unverified details](assets/unverified_details.png){ loading=lazy }

> While the labels can be arbitrary, `warehouse` recognizes the one from the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the labels can be arbitrary, `warehouse` recognizes the ones from the
```

> While the labels can be arbitrary, `warehouse` recognizes the one from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the labels can be arbitrary, PyPI recognizes the ones from the
```

Since this is user-facing documentation, we shouldn't use the codename 'warehouse' here.

|:----------------------------------|:----------|:--------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| :fontawesome-solid-house-chimney: | Homepage  | For the project homepage  |                                                           |
| :fontawesome-solid-cloud:         | Download  | A download link           |                                                           |
| :fontawesome-solid-scroll:        | Changelog | Changelog information     |                                                           |
| :fontawesome-solid-book:          | Documentation | Project documentation     | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Docs" }                  |
| :fontawesome-solid-bug:           | Bug | Bug/Issue report location | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Issue, Tracker, Report"} |
| :fontawesome-solid-circle-dollar-to-slot: | Funding | Sponsoring information | :fontawesome-solid-info:{ title="Sponsor, Donation, Donate"}                               |

#### Hosting Platforms

| Icon                           | Name      |
|:-------------------------------|:----------|
| :fontawesome-brands-github:    | GitHub    |

> | :fontawesome-brands-gitlab:    | Gitlab    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| :fontawesome-brands-gitlab:    | GitLab    |
```
